[MUSIC]
>> Justin: Let's do an exercise here.
I apologize for the crowding of the slide.
There's a lot of text up here.
But let's create some people.
We have a person constructor.
This is all available and there's
a test stud html in
the JS folder exercises.
I'll put that up here as well.
We're gonna make this possible,
this exercise possible,
we're gonna save our
person equals a function.
This is going to be our constructor
function it takes a name and
it's gonna set the name to the context
of whatever person we're creating.
So here we have, person.prototype.
This person is gonna be true.
This is just gonna make sure
we can walk up later on,
cuz if we're setting
something on the prototype.
When we use our dot operator we should be
able to walk up the chain and find it.
The same way we looked for
if we had foo equals new objects and
we said foo.two string by
invoking two string by using dot.
We were able to walk up to the proto chain
to find where two string actually lives.
We're gonna do the same thing here for
person.
So the first four lines is just
are boilerplate that we're giving you for
this exercise, excuse me, the first five
lines cuz the var person = new person.
This is what we're gonna do,
this is actually a really good exercise to
do whenever you're trying to get familiar
with the internals of a language.
We're gonna say, DOT is gonna be
a function it's going to accept person and
then name as an argument.
This is gonna be the same thing I want
to have the same functionality
as saying person.name.
So you're basically gonna
be implementing JavaScript
with JavaScript to get to
incept your own stuff.
We're gonna do the same thing for
a person.isPerson.
We'll say .person with
isPerson as our argument.
This is the property we want to look up.
So if I say a person.Name,
this would return Smith I would expect.
If I say a person.isPerson I
would expect this to return true.
And this is what our two
function calls should do.
DOT is gonna take the object that we wanna
look for, that we want to traverse and
the property we want to look up.
In this case there's only two name and
isperson.
Dot is going to have to walk
up the proto_chain right,
cuz 2string isn't at the start,
isperson isn't at the start.
You have to walk up to each
additional prototype to
say hey do you have this method or
property?
One more, hint, there is a way to
check if the object that you're on has
that property, is this property defined
on you and not on your proto_chain.
I just wanna know,
do you specifically have this?
And there's a method to check for that,
that has own property that will check to
say, hey I do or don't have this method or
property.
>> Justin: Does that all make sense?
I see a lot of blank stares.
>> Justin: Cool
do you have any questions
before we get started and
this isn't like a closed book we'll be
here to help you too through the course of
the exercise.
>> Speaker 2: So,
trying not to, how would you say,
for the example.
If you're trying to write something
that's going to walk up the proto_chain,
you could effectively do this with
like one [INAUDIBLE] line of code.
Just a simple line of codes you'd use in
the index operator that doesn't actually
keep walking up the proto property.
Don't write it that way, cuz it's cool
actually to walk up the proto_chain.
It's going to be a recursive function,
is another hint if you need
me to help you with that.
Any other questions?
>> Justin: Cool.
Let's take, what, 15 minutes.
Do the exercises, and then circle back.
To understand recursion one must
first understand recursion.
And let's do it.
It's a bit of advice.
[LAUGH] And, let me put the,
Justin just, put the paths in the chat.
But I'll put it up here as well.
Exer, make this smaller.
>> Speaker 2: The other
thing cool about this is we're gonna
write the dot .call, the new operator.
And I keep the instance of
operator in JavaScript which if
you write this and understand it, you will
really get how the dot operator works.
It's not that much different,
you'll understand what's happening when
the new operator calls a function.
The code is only going to be about
five lines for the new operator,
it's pretty simple, but
it is hard to write.
And it's gonna be kinda hard to come
up with, but it's good to kinda
flex those muscles trying to think of
how you could write a dot operator.